# FLIGHT-PRICE-PREDICTION-
Problem Statement: Airlines implement dynamic pricing for their tickets, and base their pricing decisions on demand estimation models. The reason for such a complicated system is that each flight only has a set number of seats to sell, so airlines have to regulate demand. In the case where demand is expected to exceed capacity, the airline may increase prices, to decrease the rate at which seats fill. On the other hand, a seat that goes unsold represents a loss of revenue, and selling that seat for any price above the service cost for a single passenger would have been a more preferable scenario.  Anyone who has booked a flight ticket knows how unexpectedly the prices vary. The cheapest available ticket on a given flight gets more and less expensive over time. This usually happens as an attempt to maximize revenue based on -  1. Time of purchase patterns (making sure last-minute purchases are expensive)  2. Keeping the flight as full as they want it (raising prices on a flight which is filling up in order to reduce sales and hold back inventory for those expensive last-minute expensive purchases)  So, you have to work on a project where you collect data of flight fares with other features and work to make a model to predict fares of flights. This project contains three phase-  1. Data Collection: I have done web scraping to collect the data of flight ticket prices from the well known website https://www.yatra.com/ where I found more features of flights compared to other websites and I fetch data for different locations. As per the requirement we need to build the model to predict the prices of different flight tickets.  2. Data Analysis: After cleaning the data, we have to do some analysis on the data.  Do airfares change frequently? Do they move in small increments or in large jumps? Do they tend to go up or down over time? What is the best time to buy so that the consumer can save the most by taking the least risk? Does price increase as we get near to departure date? Is Indigo cheaper than Jet Airways? Are morning flights expensive? 3. Model Building: After collecting the data, we need to build a machine learning model. Before model building do all data pre-processing steps. Try different models with different hyper parameters and select the bestmodel.  Follow the complete life cycle of data science. Include all the steps like  1. Data Cleaning  2. Exploratory Data Analysis  3. Data Pre-processing  4. Model Building  5. Model Evaluation  6. Selecting the best model
